=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Store::CouchDB - Store::CouchDB - a simple CouchDB driver

=head1 VERSION

version 3.9

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Store::CouchDB is a very thin wrapper around CouchDB. It is essentially
a set of calls I use in production and is by no means a complete
library, it is just complete enough for the things I need to do.

Refer to the CouchDB Documentation at: L<http://docs.couchdb.org/en/latest/>

    use Store::CouchDB;
    
    my $sc = Store::CouchDB->new(host => 'localhost', db => 'your_db');
    # OR
    my $sc = Store::CouchDB->new();
    $sc->config({host => 'localhost', db => 'your_db'});
    my $array_ref = $db->get_array_view({
        view   => 'design_doc/view_name',
        opts   => { key => $key },
    });

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 debug

Sets the class in debug mode

Default: false

=head2 host

Default: localhost

=head2 port

Default: 5984

=head2 ssl

Connect to host using SSL/TLS.

Default: false

=head2 db

The databae name to use.

=head2 user

The DB user to authenticate as. optional

=head2 pass

The password for the user to authenticate with. required if user is given.

=head2 method

This is internal and sets the request method to be used (GET|POST)

Default: GET

=head2 error

This is set if an error has occured and can be called to get the last
error with the 'has_error' predicate.

    $sc->has_error

Error string if there was an error

=head2 purge_limit

How many documents shall we try to purge.

Default: 5000

=head2 timeout

Timeout in seconds for each HTTP request. Passed onto LWP::UserAgent.
In case of a view or list related query where the view has not been updated in
a long time this will timeout and a new request with the C<stale> option set to
C<update_after> will be made to avoid blocking.
See http://docs.couchdb.org/en/latest/api/ddoc/views.html

Set this very high if you don't want stale results.

Default: 30

=head2 json

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

The Store::CouchDB class takes a any of the attributes described above as parameters.

=head2 get_doc

The get_doc call returns a document by its ID. If no document ID is given it
returns undef

    my $doc = $sc->get_doc({ id => 'doc_id', rev => '1-rev', dbname => 'database' });

where the dbname key is optional. Alternatively this works too:

    my $doc = $sc->get_doc('doc_id');

=head2 head_doc

If all you need is the revision a HEAD call is enough.

    my $rev = $sc->head_doc('doc_id');

=head2 all_docs

This call returns a list of document IDs with their latest revision by default.
Use C<include_docs> to get all Documents attached as well.

    my @docs = $sc->all_docs({ include_docs => 'true' });

=head2 get_design_docs

The get_design_docs call returns all design document names in an array.
You can add C<include_docs => 'true'> to get whole design documents.

    my @docs = $sc->get_design_docs({ dbname => 'database' });

Again the C<dbname> key is optional.

=head2 put_doc

The put_doc call writes a document to the database and either updates a
existing document if the _id field is present or writes a new one.
Updates can also be done with the C<update_doc> call if you want to prevent
creation of a new document in case the document ID is missing in your input
hashref.

    my ($id, $rev) = $sc->put_doc({ doc => { .. }, dbname => 'database' });

=head2 del_doc

The del_doc call marks a document as deleted. CouchDB needs a revision
to delete a document which is good for security but is not practical for
me in some situations. If no revision is supplied del_doc will get the
document, find the latest revision and delete the document. Returns the
revision in SCALAR context, document ID and revision in ARRAY context.

    my $rev = $sc->del_doc({ id => 'doc_id', rev => 'r-evision', dbname => 'database' });

=head2 update_doc

B<WARNING: as of Version C<3.4> this method breaks old code!>

The use of C<update_doc()> was discouraged before this version and was merely a
wrapper for put_doc, which became unnecessary. Please make sure you update your
code if you were using this method before version C<3.4>.

C<update_doc> refuses to push a document if the document ID is missing or the
document does not exist. This will make sure that you can only update existing
documents and not accidentally create a new one.

            $id = $sc->update_doc({ doc => { _id => '', _rev => '', ... } });
    ($id, $rev) = $sc->update_doc({ doc => { .. }, dbname => 'database' });

=head2 copy_doc

The copy_doc is _not_ the same as the CouchDB equivalent. In CouchDB the
copy command wants to have a name/id for the new document which is
mandatory and can not be ommitted. I find that inconvenient and made
this small wrapper. All it does is getting the doc to copy, removes the
_id and _rev fields and saves it back as a new document.

    my ($id, $rev) = $sc->copy_doc({ id => 'doc_id', dbname => 'database' });

=head2 show_doc

call a show function on a document to transform it.

    my $content = $sc->show_doc({ show => 'design_doc/show_name' });

=head2 get_view

There are several ways to represent the result of a view and various
ways to query for a view. All the views support parameters but there are
different functions for GET/POST view handling and representing the
reults.
The get_view uses GET to call the view and returns a hash with the _id
as the key and the document as a value in the hash structure. This is
handy for getting a hash structure for several documents in the DB.

    my $hashref = $sc->get_view({
        view => 'design_doc/view_name',
        opts => { key => $key },
    });

=head2 get_post_view

The get_post_view uses POST to call the view and returns a hash with the _id
as the key and the document as a value in the hash structure. This is
handy for getting a hash structure for several documents in the DB.

    my $hashref = $sc->get_post_view({
        view => 'design_doc/view_name',
        opts => [ $key1, $key2, $key3, ... ],
    });

=head2 get_view_array

Same as get_array_view only returns a real array. Use either one
depending on your use case and convenience.

=head2 get_array_view

The get_array_view uses GET to call the view and returns an array
reference of matched documents. This view functions is the one I use
most and has the best support for corner cases.

    my @docs = @{ $sc->get_array_view({
        view => 'design_doc/view_name',
        opts => { key => $key },
    }) };

A normal response hash would be the "value" part of the document with
the _id moved in as "id". If the response is not a HASH (the request was
resulting in key/value pairs) the entire doc is returned resulting in a
hash of key/value/id per document.

=head2 list_view

use the _list function on a view to transform its output. if your view contains
a reduce function you have to add

    opts => { reduce => 'false' }

to your hash.

    my $content = $sc->list_view({
        list => 'list_name',
        view => 'design/view',
    #   opts => { reduce => 'false' },
    });

=head2 changes

First draft of a changes feed implementation. Currently just returns the whole
JSON structure received. This might change in the future. As usual the C<dbname>
key is optional if the database name is already set via the C<db> attribute.

    my $changes = $sc->changes({dbname => 'database', limit => 100, since => 'now' });

=head2 purge

This function tries to find deleted documents via the _changes call and
then purges as many deleted documents as defined in $self->purge_limit
which currently defaults to 5000. This call is somewhat experimental in
the moment.

    my $result = $sc->purge({ dbname => 'database' });

=head2 compact

This compacts the DB file and optionally calls purge and cleans up the
view index as well.

    my $result = $sc->compact({ purge => 1, view_compact => 1 });

=head2 put_file

To add an attachement to CouchDB use the put_file method. 'file' because
it is shorter than attachement and less prone to misspellings. The
put_file method works like the put_doc function and will add an
attachement to an existing doc if the '_id' parameter is given or creates
a new empty doc with the attachement otherwise.
The 'file' and 'filename' parameters are mandatory.

    my ($id, $rev) = $sc->put_file({ file => 'content', filename => 'file.txt', id => 'doc_id' });

=head2 get_file

Get a file attachement from a CouchDB document.

    my $content = $sc->get_file({ id => 'doc_id', filename => 'file.txt' });

=head2 del_file

Delete a file attachement from a CouchDB document.

    my $content = $sc->del_file({ id => 'doc_id', rev => 'r-evision', filename => 'file.txt' });

=head2 config

This can be called with a hash of config values to configure the databse
object. I use it frequently with sections of config files.

    $sc->config({ host => 'HOST', port => 'PORT', db => 'DATABASE' });

=head2 create_db

Create a Database

    my $result = $sc->create_db('name');

=head2 delete_db

Delete/Drop a Databse

    my $result = $sc->delete_db('name');

=head2 all_dbs

Get a list of all Databases

    my @db = $sc->all_dbs;

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on GitHub's issue tracker L<https://github.com/norbu09/Store-CouchDB/issues>.
Pull requests welcome.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Store::CouchDB

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * GitHub repository

L<https://github.com/norbu09/Store-CouchDB>

=item * MetaCPAN

L<https://metacpan.org/module/Store::CouchDB>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Store::CouchDB>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Store::CouchDB>

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks for DB::CouchDB which was very enspiring for writing this library

=head1 AUTHOR

Lenz Gschwendtner <norbu09@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Lenz Gschwendtner.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
